# Backend - Database Basics - 3

# MongoDB in general

- NoSQL Document database
> MongoDB stores data records as BSON documents. BSON is a binary representation of JSON documents, though it contains more data types than JSON.
> https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/document/

- BSON Documents look like this
  ```
  {
    name: "Veera",     // field: value
    type: "Warrior",   // field: value
    age: 39            // field: value
  }
  ```

- More data types than JSON?!? 
    - https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/bson-types/
    - ObjectID is the important one here
    - ObjectIDs are cool! They look like this: `507f191e810c19729de860ea`
    - `507f191e___810c19729d___e860ea`
    > a 4-byte timestamp value, representing the ObjectId's creation, measured in seconds since the Unix epoch
    > a 5-byte random value
    > a 3-byte incrementing counter, initialized to a random value

# Using MONGO

- We will use mongo similarly to using MariaDB.
- To open the mongo shell we use the `mongo` command
- **NOTE** There is a newer, MUCH BETTER shell for MongoDB called `mongosh` - install it if you are curious
- We will stick to the basic one for now

- The reference manual is great!
- https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/db.collection.updateOne/

## CRUD

- `show databases`
- `use <db name>`
  > There is no “create” command in the MongoDB shell. In order to create a database, you will first need to switch the context to a non-existing database using the `use` command
  > MongoDB only creates the database when you first store data in that database.
  > https://www.mongodb.com/basics/create-database

- `db` --> show currently active database

## Table --> Collection

- `show collections;` --> Lists all collections
- `db.createCollection("products");` --> Creates the collection
- `db.products.drop()` --> Deletes the collection
- Difference I: SQL requires structure, MongoDB does not

## Row --> Document, Column --> Field

- `db.products.insertOne({ name: "iPhone 8", price: 312, qty: 1 });`
    - By default, MongoDB creates an ObjectID for our inserted documents
    - The ObjectID will be stored in a field called `_id`
- Difference II: Mongo implicitly provides unique ids

- `db.foods.insertOne({ name: "Potato", rating: 100 });`
- Difference III: Mongo implicitly creates collections with `.insertOne()`

- `db.products.find();` --> This one gets all documents out
- `db.products.find({ _id: ObjectId("6142f9cc74d1616b8929646a") });`
- `db.products.find({ name: "iPhone 8" });`

- `db.<collection>.updateOne(<filter>, <update>)`
    ```js
    db.foods.updateOne(
        { "name": "Potato" }, 
        { $set: { "name": "Tomato" } }
    );
    ```

    ```js
    db.foods.updateOne(
        { "_id": ObjectId("6142fe5074d1616b8929646d") }, 
        { $set: { "rating": 100 } }
    );
    ```

## What is this magical shell?

- `print("potato");`
- `let d = db.products.findOne();`
- `print(d.name);`
- `db.products.find().forEach(doc => print(doc.name));`
- `try { this.will.fail() } catch(e) { print(e); };`

